docs/development.md, before:

# Development

Install required tools:

- cmake version 3.24 or higher
- go version 1.22 or higher
- gcc version 11.4.0 or higher

### MacOS

```bash
brew install go cmake gcc
```

Optionally enable debugging and more verbose logging:

```bash
# At build time
export CGO_CFLAGS="-g"

# At runtime
export OLLAMA_DEBUG=1
```

Get the required libraries and build the native LLM code:

```bash
go generate ./...
```

Then build ollama:

```bash
go build .
```

Now you can run `ollama`:

```bash
./ollama
```

### Linux

#### Linux CUDA (NVIDIA)

_Your operating system distribution may already have packages for NVIDIA CUDA. Distro packages are often preferable, but instructions are distro-specific. Please consult distro-specific docs for dependencies if available!_

Install `cmake` and `golang` as well as [NVIDIA CUDA](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads)
development and runtime packages.

Typically the build scripts will auto-detect CUDA, however, if your Linux distro
or installation approach uses unusual paths, you can specify the location by
specifying an environment variable `CUDA_LIB_DIR` to the location of the shared
libraries, and `CUDACXX` to the location of the nvcc compiler. You can customize
a set of target CUDA architectures by setting `CMAKE_CUDA_ARCHITECTURES` (e.g. "50;60;70")

Then generate dependencies:

```
go generate ./...
```

Then build the binary:

```
go build .
```

#### Linux ROCm (AMD)

_Your operating system distribution may already have packages for AMD ROCm and CLBlast. Distro packages are often preferable, but instructions are distro-specific. Please consult distro-specific docs for dependencies if available!_

Install [CLBlast](https://github.com/CNugteren/CLBlast/blob/master/doc/installation.md) and [ROCm](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/) development packages first, as well as `cmake` and `golang`.

Typically the build scripts will auto-detect ROCm, however, if your Linux distro
or installation approach uses unusual paths, you can specify the location by
specifying an environment variable `ROCM_PATH` to the location of the ROCm
install (typically `/opt/rocm`), and `CLBlast_DIR` to the location of the
CLBlast install (typically `/usr/lib/cmake/CLBlast`). You can also customize
the AMD GPU targets by setting AMDGPU_TARGETS (e.g. `AMDGPU_TARGETS="gfx1101;gfx1102"`)

```
go generate ./...
```

Then build the binary:

```
go build .
```

ROCm requires elevated privileges to access the GPU at runtime. On most distros you can add your user account to the `render` group, or run as root.

#### Advanced CPU Settings

By default, running `go generate ./...` will compile a few different variations
of the LLM library based on common CPU families and vector math capabilities,
including a lowest-common-denominator which should run on almost any 64 bit CPU
somewhat slowly. At runtime, Ollama will auto-detect the optimal variation to
load. If you would like to build a CPU-based build customized for your
processor, you can set `OLLAMA_CUSTOM_CPU_DEFS` to the llama.cpp flags you would
like to use. For example, to compile an optimized binary for an Intel i9-9880H,
you might use:

```
OLLAMA_CUSTOM_CPU_DEFS="-DLLAMA_AVX=on -DLLAMA_AVX2=on -DLLAMA_F16C=on -DLLAMA_FMA=on" go generate ./...
go build .
```

#### Containerized Linux Build

If you have Docker available, you can build linux binaries with `./scripts/build_linux.sh` which has the CUDA and ROCm dependencies included. The resulting binary is placed in `./dist`

### Windows

Note: The windows build for Ollama is still under development.

Install required tools:

- MSVC toolchain - C/C++ and cmake as minimal requirements
- Go version 1.22 or higher
- MinGW (pick one variant) with GCC.
  - [MinGW-w64](https://www.mingw-w64.org/)
  - [MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/)

```powershell
$env:CGO_ENABLED="1"
go generate ./...
go build .
```

#### Windows CUDA (NVIDIA)

In addition to the common Windows development tools described above, install CUDA after installing MSVC.

- [NVIDIA CUDA](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-microsoft-windows/index.html)


#### Windows ROCm (AMD Radeon)

In addition to the common Windows development tools described above, install AMDs HIP package after installing MSVC.

- [AMD HIP](https://www.amd.com/en/developer/resources/rocm-hub/hip-sdk.html)
- [Strawberry Perl](https://strawberryperl.com/)

Lastly, add `ninja.exe` included with MSVC to the system path (e.g. `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\Common7\IDE\CommonExtensions\Microsoft\CMake\Ninja`).

Commit message:

WIP - docs
Doesn't actually work yet with 390 which seems to be required to pick up the really old GPUs.  CUDA v11 doesn't seem viable, so probably need v10, but they don't make it easy to figure out how to install it

dlerr: /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libcuda.so.390.157: undefined symbol: cuDeviceGetUuid
cudaSetDevice err: 999 with our bundled version

docs/development.md, after:

# Development

Install required tools:

- cmake version 3.24 or higher
- go version 1.22 or higher
- gcc version 11.4.0 or higher

### MacOS

```bash
brew install go cmake gcc
```

Optionally enable debugging and more verbose logging:

```bash
# At build time
export CGO_CFLAGS="-g"

# At runtime
export OLLAMA_DEBUG=1
```

Get the required libraries and build the native LLM code:

```bash
go generate ./...
```

Then build ollama:

```bash
go build .
```

Now you can run `ollama`:

```bash
./ollama
```

### Linux

#### Linux CUDA (NVIDIA)

_Your operating system distribution may already have packages for NVIDIA CUDA. Distro packages are often preferable, but instructions are distro-specific. Please consult distro-specific docs for dependencies if available!_

Install `cmake` and `golang` as well as [NVIDIA CUDA](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads)
development and runtime packages.

Typically the build scripts will auto-detect CUDA, however, if your Linux distro
or installation approach uses unusual paths, you can specify the location by
specifying an environment variable `CUDA_LIB_DIR` to the location of the shared
libraries, and `CUDACXX` to the location of the nvcc compiler. You can customize
a set of target CUDA architectures by setting `CMAKE_CUDA_ARCHITECTURES` (e.g. "50;60;70")

To support GPUs older than Compute Capability 5.0, you will need to use an older version of
the Driver from [Unix Driver Archive](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/drivers/unix/) (e.g. 470, or 390) and [CUDA Toolkit Archive](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit-archive)

Then generate dependencies:

```
go generate ./...
```

Then build the binary:

```
go build .
```

#### Linux ROCm (AMD)

_Your operating system distribution may already have packages for AMD ROCm and CLBlast. Distro packages are often preferable, but instructions are distro-specific. Please consult distro-specific docs for dependencies if available!_

Install [CLBlast](https://github.com/CNugteren/CLBlast/blob/master/doc/installation.md) and [ROCm](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/) development packages first, as well as `cmake` and `golang`.

Typically the build scripts will auto-detect ROCm, however, if your Linux distro
or installation approach uses unusual paths, you can specify the location by
specifying an environment variable `ROCM_PATH` to the location of the ROCm
install (typically `/opt/rocm`), and `CLBlast_DIR` to the location of the
CLBlast install (typically `/usr/lib/cmake/CLBlast`). You can also customize
the AMD GPU targets by setting AMDGPU_TARGETS (e.g. `AMDGPU_TARGETS="gfx1101;gfx1102"`)

```
go generate ./...
```

Then build the binary:

```
go build .
```

ROCm requires elevated privileges to access the GPU at runtime. On most distros you can add your user account to the `render` group, or run as root.

#### Advanced CPU Settings

By default, running `go generate ./...` will compile a few different variations
of the LLM library based on common CPU families and vector math capabilities,
including a lowest-common-denominator which should run on almost any 64 bit CPU
somewhat slowly. At runtime, Ollama will auto-detect the optimal variation to
load. If you would like to build a CPU-based build customized for your
processor, you can set `OLLAMA_CUSTOM_CPU_DEFS` to the llama.cpp flags you would
like to use. For example, to compile an optimized binary for an Intel i9-9880H,
you might use:

```
OLLAMA_CUSTOM_CPU_DEFS="-DLLAMA_AVX=on -DLLAMA_AVX2=on -DLLAMA_F16C=on -DLLAMA_FMA=on" go generate ./...
go build .
```

#### Containerized Linux Build

If you have Docker available, you can build linux binaries with `./scripts/build_linux.sh` which has the CUDA and ROCm dependencies included. The resulting binary is placed in `./dist`

### Windows

Note: The windows build for Ollama is still under development.

Install required tools:

- MSVC toolchain - C/C++ and cmake as minimal requirements
- Go version 1.22 or higher
- MinGW (pick one variant) with GCC.
  - [MinGW-w64](https://www.mingw-w64.org/)
  - [MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/)

```powershell
$env:CGO_ENABLED="1"
go generate ./...
go build .
```

#### Windows CUDA (NVIDIA)

In addition to the common Windows development tools described above, install CUDA after installing MSVC.

- [NVIDIA CUDA](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-installation-guide-microsoft-windows/index.html)


#### Windows ROCm (AMD Radeon)

In addition to the common Windows development tools described above, install AMDs HIP package after installing MSVC.

- [AMD HIP](https://www.amd.com/en/developer/resources/rocm-hub/hip-sdk.html)
- [Strawberry Perl](https://strawberryperl.com/)

Lastly, add `ninja.exe` included with MSVC to the system path (e.g. `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\Common7\IDE\CommonExtensions\Microsoft\CMake\Ninja`).
